The Nuts and Bolts of Tanks: Running Gear
Running gear.
As you know, tanks are not afraid to get dirty.
They are also not afraid of hills, mud, small trees and light buildings.
Their high cross-country mobility is provided by their track assembly,
known as the “caterpillar track”.
It can be traced back to the beginning of the 20th century, even before World War I.
Compared to wheeled vehicles, tracked vehicles are much better at crossing rough ground and mud.
The running gear of the first British tank was based on tracked farm vehicles;
specifically, the Holt tractor.
The British rhombic tank design featured wheels anchored on the hull,
and tracks all around the perimeter.
This gave good cross-country mobility,
but the absence of any shock absorbers meant that the crew was badly buffeted
whenever the tank met rough ground or an obstacle.
After the first World War, there were some more attempts to build tanks with tractor running gear.
By the early 1920s, it became quite clear that such simple running gear was inadequate.
Engineers started designing suspensions specifically for tanks.
The resulting designs can be divided into three groups:
dependent, independent, and semi-dependent.
A dependent suspension consisted of bogies which held several wheels.
Shock absorbers could be mounted onto the bogies only, or onto both the bogies and wheels.
The dependent suspension was used in the Vickers 6-Ton, the Sherman, T-28, and many others.
Among the advantages of the dependent suspension were soft ride at moderate speeds,
ease of maintenance, and ease of manufacture.
There were disadvantages, too: the suspension elements were poorly protected,
and it was impossible to attain high speed.
In an independent suspension, every wheel had independent shock absorbers.
Designers used leaf springs, coil springs and, later, torsion bars.
Among the earlier types of independent suspension was the Christie suspension,
invented and developed by American engineer J. Walter Christie in the 1920s and ‘30s.
With this suspension, a vehicle could use either tracks or wheels.
The Soviet BT light tanks could run on its wheels on-road, or mount its tracks for off-road travel.
Eventually the idea of the wheeled tanks was abandoned.
The tracked version of the Christie suspension was used in a range of British tanks,
including the Cromwell and Comet, as well as the most famous Soviet tank of World War II, the T-34.
The Christie suspension used coil springs as shock absorbers.
The independent suspension with leaf springs was used in the Pz. II German tank.
This vehicle had five wheels on each side, with every wheel attached to a separate spring.
The torsion bar suspension was invented in the late 1930s.
The torsion bars are metal bars that can twist in response to the motion of the wheels.
The advantages of torsion bar suspension are resistance to battlefield damage,
compact size and ride comfort.
Nowadays, torsion bar suspension is used in most of tanks.
Pneumatic and hydro-pneumatic suspensions are also very promising.
In these designs, shock absorption is carried out using compressed air or compressed liquid.
Pneumatic suspension was first used in the British Tetrarch.
It’s still used nowadays in some tanks—for example, the British Challenger.
But overall, it is not widely used.
In the next episode, we’ll tell you about the engine and transmission—the components that put tanks in motion.